.TH GWARDEN-NET 1 "2025-01-23" "ghostwarden 0.1.0" "GhostWarden Manual"
.SH NAME
gwarden-net \- Network topology management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gwarden net
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage network topology including bridges, NAT, VLANs, and nftables rules.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B plan [\-f \fIFILE\fR]
Preview network changes without applying them. Validates topology and shows planned actions.
.TP
.B apply [\-f \fIFILE\fR] [\-\-commit] [\-\-confirm \fISECONDS\fR]
Apply network configuration. Use \fB\-\-commit\fR to actually apply (otherwise dry-run). Use \fB\-\-confirm\fR to enable automatic rollback after timeout.
.TP
.B status
Show current network status including bridges, nftables rules, and DHCP leases.
.TP
.B diff [\fIFILE\fR]
Compare desired nftables rules with the live system.
.TP
.B rollback [\-\-execute]
Roll back the last applied snapshot. Without \fB\-\-execute\fR only a preview is printed.
.TP
.B state [\-\-json]
Show the persisted apply state from the last commit. Use \fB\-\-json\fR for machine-readable output.
.TP
.B state-clear [\-\-confirm]
Clear the persisted apply state. Requires \fB\-\-confirm\fR; does not touch live resources.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-commit
Actually apply changes (required for non-dry-run)
.TP
.B \-\-confirm \fISECONDS\fR
Enable rollback timeout. If not confirmed within \fISECONDS\fR, changes are rolled back automatically.
.TP
.B \-\-execute
For \fBrollback\fR, perform the rollback instead of previewing it.
.TP
.B \-\-json
For \fBstate\fR, emit the apply state as JSON.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Preview changes:
.B gwarden net plan \-f ghostnet.toml
.TP
Apply with 30-second rollback window:
.B sudo gwarden net apply \-f ghostnet.toml \-\-commit \-\-confirm 30
.TP
Check status:
.B gwarden net status
.TP
Manual rollback:
.B sudo gwarden net rollback
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/gwarden/ghostnet.toml
Default topology file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gwarden (1),
.BR nft (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher Kelley <ckelley@ghostkellz.sh>
